---
layout: post
title: "Morocco III"
date: 2015-02-28 13:37:00
categories: africa
tags: morocco
---
We stay in Fez for 3 nights.
Nina, Lorenz' girlfriend, arrives during the first night and will accompany us for 2 weeks.
On the first day we explore Fez' medina.
The medina here is the largest pedestrian zone in the world and home to around 150 thousand people.
It's a giant maze full of tourist shops, traditional craftsmen, hard-to-find markets, restaurants and pretty much anything else you can imagine.
The only mode of transport is by foot for people and by donkey for goods.
We spend most of the day navigating through this maze and manage to find the most important sights in the process: the tanneries and the blue gate.
Fez is the second biggest tourist destination in Morocco, so naturally western looking people are constantly being harassed by faux guides, restaurant touts or other salesmen.
We don't know much Arabic, but "la shokran" quickly become the most important words we know.
It means "no thank you" and works wonders against the touts.
It outperforms "non merci" and "no thank you" by far.


The second day, Lorenz and I spend mostly in bed due to sick stomachs.
We ate a tajine for lunch yesterday.
They sometimes add pieces of orange with the peel to the tajine and we've always eaten those pieces without problems.
This time we guess that the orange hasn't been washed and our stomachs didn't take the pesticides that well.
Getting sick from a meal at a tourist shop seems like a bad joke if you consider all the sketchy places we've eaten before reaching Fez.
We feel better on the third day and head out towards the southwest.
What follows are 2 uneventful days, but on scenic roads across the mountains and through a landscape that looks like how I imagine route 66.


We reach the Todgha Gorge.
The gorge is impressive - we wonder what it looks like from the top, but leave it up to the many climbers to find out.
The area is very touristic and many tour buses stop here, but the number of tourists quickly diminishes the further we go in.
Without the people around, we cook along the river in peace.
We sleep at one of the hundreds of auberges along the road leading to the gorge.
The owner is not very happy that we're not the typical tourist and negotiate the price down to an acceptable level, but that's something he has to live with.
Not everyone is a walking ATM.